**Clock Synchronisation**

* Computers use quartz clock.
* They use protocols like NTP, PTP for minimizing the clock skew (diff b/w 2 clocks). 
* In a partially synchronous or asynchronous networks, it is not possible to reduce the clock skew to 0.
* Solution: Periodically query a server which gives the time from an atomic clock.

**NTP (Network Time Protocol)**
* Many OS servers run NTP servers. We can configure OS to run them by default.
* Servers are arranged in hierarchy (strata):
    * Stratum 0: Atomic Clock or GPS receiver
    * Stratum 1: Synced directly with Stratum 0 device
    * Stratum n: Synced directly with Stratum n - 1 device

* How to improve the result of the query:
    * Contacting multiple servers, discarding outliers, averaging rest.
    * Making multiple requests to the same server and using statistics to reduce random error due to variations in latency.
    * Reduces clock skew to a few ms in good n/w conditions, but could be much worse.

**Estimating Time Over A Network**
* As can be seen from the ntp server clock server, we have 4 times:
    t1: when time was sent by NTP client in the request as per the client's clock.
    t2: time at which NTP server received the request as per the server's clock.
    t3: time at which NTP server sent the response as per the server's clock.
    t4: time at which NTP client received the response as the per the client's clock.

* Round-trip network delay: Amount of time spent travelling through the network.
    delta = (Response Received Time - Response Sent Time) - (Time Spent processing the request)
    = (t4 - t1) - (t3 - t2)
* We can calculate the round-trip network delay, but we cannot calculate how much did the request and response take individually in the network. That cannot be calculated if we don't have synchronized clock (which we definitely don't have as that is what we are trying to build).
* We can assume that they are symmetric: request latency = response latency = delta / 2

* Estimated server time when client receives response = t3 + delta / 2
* Estimated clock skew = theta = t3 + delta / 2 - t4 = (t2 - t1 + t3 - t4) / 2

**Correcting Clock Skew**
* If theta < 125 ms, *slew* the clock:
    * Slightly speed it up and slow it down by up to 500 ppm. (brings clock in sync within 5 minutes).
* If theta is between 125 ms, *step* the clock:
    * Reset it to estimated server timestamp.
* If theta is greater than 1000s, *panic and do nothing*
    * Leave it to a human operator to fix.

**Monotonic and Time-of-day Clocks**
* We use time.Now sort of methods to calculate the time taken for a particular API or function. What if the clock skew happens in between the API call? We will get the wrong time. The method that we use for find the time should be able not get affected by clock sync. Monotonic clock does just that => useful for measuring elapsed time. (it always moves at a constant rate).