**Broadcast Protocols**

* One node sends message to all nodes in a group.
* Set of group members may be fixed (static) or dynamic.
* If one node is faulty, remaining group members carry on.
* Note: concept is more general that IP multicast (we build upon point-to-point messaging, we assume that the underlying network only provides that). Broadcast as an abstraction.

* System model assumptions:
    * Can be *best-effort* (may drop messages) or *reliable* (non-faulty nodes deliver every message, by retransmitting dropped messages).
    * Asynchronous / partially synchronous timing model => *no upper bound* on message latency.

**Receiving vs Delivering**
* Broadcasting and delivering are the counterpart of sending and receiving.
* After broadcast algorithm *receives* a message from the network, it may *buffer or queue* it before *delivering* to the application. This could be done to ensure that the messages are delivered in a certain order.

**Forms of reliable broadcast**

* *FIFO broadcast*: 
    * If m1 and m2 are broadcast by the same node, and broadcast(m1) -> broadcast(m2) (broadcast of m1 happens before broadcast of m2), the m1 must be delivered before m2. It does not provide any guarantee if m1 and m2 are broadcast by different nodes.
    * As per the FIFO broadcast diagram, messages m1 and m3 are broadcast by the same node A, and hence m1 should be delivered to all nodes (A, B, C) before m3 which holds.
    * But since m1, m2 are broadcast on different nodes, it doesn't make any guarantee on the order in which the messages are delivered and we can see that m1 got delivered after m2 to node C (which is not in causal sense).

* *Causal Broadcast*:
    * If broadcast(m1) -> broadcast(m2), then m1 must be delivered before m2 irrespective of the node from which it was broadcast. No guarantees in case of concurrent messages.
    * Causally related messages must be delivered in causal order. Concurrent messages can be delivered in any order.
    * We can see that the messages are not delivered to all the nodes in the exact same order. eg. Messages delivered to A: m1, m3, m2 while B: m1, m2, m3.

* *Total order broadcast*:
    * If m1 is delivered before m2 on one node, then m1 must be delivered before m2 on all nodes.
    * We decide on a specific order, let's say m1, m3, m2. Then all nodes have to adhere to.
    * Eg. In the total_order_broadcast diagram, m2 holds back the delivery to itself so that m3 is delivered first. Hence the delivery to itself comes in handy at this step.
